Tizen-Studio 5.0 public release note (#1701)
Samsung/tizen-docs: docs/application/tizen-studio/release-notes/5-0-release-notes.md

# Tizen Studio 5.0 Release Notes

- Release Date: Oct 31, 2022

## IDE and tools

### New feature

- WHPX support on Windows

>   - WHPX support has been added in Tizen emulators. Users can now use either HAXM or WHPX accelerators to launch Tizen emulators on windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - WHPX support has been added in Tizen emulators. Users can now use either HAXM or WHPX accelerators to launch Tizen emulators on Windows.

```

Author: Fixed

- macOS notarization support for Tizen installer

>   - Tizen installers are now officialy notarized with Apple. Users can install tizen studio on macOS without any notarization errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Tizen installers are now officially notarized with Apple. Users can install Tizen Studio on macOS without any notarization errors.

```

Author: Fixed

- Ubuntu 22.04 support

>   - Tizen Studio is now supported on ubuntu 22.04.
>   - Visual Studio Code Extension for Tizen is now supported on ubuntu 22.04.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Tizen Studio is now supported on Ubuntu 22.04.
  - Visual Studio Code Extension for Tizen is now supported on Ubuntu 22.04.

```

Author: Fixed

- CLI

>   - support for non samsung vendor TV devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - support for non Samsung vendor TV devices.

```

Author: Fixed

>   - support for non-Samsung vendor TV devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Support for non-Samsung vendor TV devices.

```

  - Added support for RPK projects.
- VSCode
  - Added support for RPK projects.
- Visual Studio (Windows)
  - Added support to install Tizen dotnet workload in non-admin mode.

>   - Intellisense support has been added for Tizen web project config.xml file and workspace yaml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Intellisense support has been added for Tizen web project config.xml file and workspace YAML file.

```

Author: Fixed as per comments

### Fixed bugs
  - Added the option in CLI to include the files outside app directory while packaging.
  - Fixed the error of on-demand packages not getting installed in Visual Studio when multiple target devices are launched.

>   - Fixed the issue of Multi app project not getting packaged in CLI, If static lib is the main project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue of Multi app project not getting packaged in CLI if static lib is the main project. 

```

Author: Fixed

  - Fixed the issue of directories not being created in CLI packaging command when -o option is passed.

>   - Valgrind profiling support has been removed from tizen studio as its not supported in tizen platform anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Valgrind profiling support has been removed from Tizen Studio as its not supported in Tizen platform anymore.

```

>   - IOT setup manager support has been removed from tizen studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - IoT setup manager support has been removed from Tizen Studio.

```

### Known issues

>   - In macOS, if the UI perspectives are not displayed properly after updating Tizen Studio, it is recommended to restart the IDE. This issue is because of the uncleared cache from the previous installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - On macOS, if the UI perspectives are not displayed properly after updating Tizen Studio, it is recommended to restart the IDE. This issue is because of the uncleared cache from the previous installation.

```

  - In case you see any old perspective, it is recommended to create a new workspace and import the projects to the new workspace to resolve the issue.

>   - In macOS from Catalina and above versions, Native Templates-5.5 will not build with CLI when the compiler is set to **gcc**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - In macOS, from Catalina and above versions, Native Templates-5.5 will not build with CLI when the compiler is set to **GCC**.

```

Author: Fixed as per comments

>   - In macOS, from Catalina and above versions, Native Templates-5.5 will not build with CLI when the compiler is set to **GCC**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - On macOS, from Catalina and above versions, Native Templates-5.5 will not build with CLI when the compiler is set to **GCC**.

```

Reviewer: @vivek-ellur You have missed out on this suggestion. Please address this. Thanks.

- Common

>   - If you install Tizen Studio in a directory that requires administrator privileges for access, an alert will be given. . For example, for **C:\ProgramFiles** location administrator privilege is needed to run Tizen SDK tools. Tizen Installer and Baseline SDK Installer alerts you if you try to install it into such a directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If you install Tizen Studio in a directory that requires administrator privileges for access, an alert will be given. For example, for **C:\ProgramFiles**, location administrator privilege is needed to run Tizen SDK tools. Tizen Installer and Baseline SDK Installer alerts you if you try to install it into such a directory.

```

Author: Fixed as per comments

- Web and Native IDE
  - You can create unit tests for Tizen 2.3.2 and higher version projects only. Unit testing for older versions is not supported.
- Web IDE

>   - The preview tab in the Web Page Editor sometimes does not appear properly. Use an alternative feature, named Web SDK HTML Editor, which has enhanced features compared to the Web Page Editor. Instead of the preview tab in the Web Page Editor, use the preview feature **Ctrl + 4** of the Web SDK HTML Editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The preview tab in the Web Page Editor sometimes does not appear properly. In this case, you can use an alternative feature, named Web SDK HTML Editor, which has enhanced features compared to the Web Page Editor. Instead of the preview tab in the Web Page Editor, use the preview feature **Ctrl + 4** of the Web SDK HTML Editor.

```

Author: Fixed as per comments

  - In Rapid Development Support (RDS) mode, the web unit test result is not updated.
  - Remote Inspector does not allow audit in the updated version of Chrome.
- Certificate Manager
  - Overwriting a duplicate certificate profile in the migration wizard works incorrectly on macOS.
- Emulator

>   - In the Tizen 5.5 version, the emulator images app un-installation might take some time to complete if the app name contains more than 14 characters. A patch for the same is expected to be released in the next update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - In the Tizen 5.5 version, the emulator images app uninstallation might take some time to complete if the app name contains more than 14 characters. A patch for the same is expected to be released in the next update.

```

Author: Fixed as per comments

  - Basic web applications are not installed on SD cards.
  - To use Tizen Emulator in Tizen platform 3.0 or lower, disable the CPU VT option in the **HW Support** tab of Emulator Configuration.
- CLI and SDB
  - Tizen Studio does not support the [Smart Development Bridge](../common-tools/smart-development-bridge.md) (SDB) bash auto-completion on Windows (it is available on Ubuntu and macOS).
- Dynamic Analyzer
  - When analyzing applications on commercial devices running Tizen 3.0, newly-released or after a firmware update, the following problems exist:
    - The core frequency information is not shown.
    - The screenshots on the scene transitions feature will not work.
  - When analyzing applications on Tizen 4.0 Emulator or reference device, the startup profiling information is not shown.
  - The UI Hierarchy viewer feature and startup profiling are not performed simultaneously.
  - The Dynamic Analyzer cannot show lifecycle information for web applications.
  - Widget applications cannot be profiled with the Dynamic Analyzer. They are hidden in the application list on the toolbar for all Tizen platforms, except Tizen 2.3.2.

>   - The Dynamic Analyzer sometimes gets stuck which is caused by an internal security checking program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The Dynamic Analyzer sometimes gets stuck, which is caused by an internal security checking program.

```

- Visual Studio

>   - NUI XAML application build error can be resolved by doing clean and then build again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - NUI XAML application build error can be resolved by doing a clean build.

```
